---
layout: post
title: "Resume"
date: 2016-11-24
image: "/thumbnails/aurora.png"
description: Placeholder description.
author: charles
---

**NOTE: The resume is a bit out of date, and the email address is currently not active. Source repo [here](https://github.com/chizarlicious/resume). PDF [here](http://charles.uno/assets/images/resume/resume.pdf).**


Charles McEachern

Minneapolis, MN • (651) 269-9245 • www.charles.uno • ch@rles.uno

## Skills

### Languages

Bash, C++, Fortran, Python, some experience with HTML/CSS and JavaScript

### Tools

BeautifulSoup, git, \LaTeX, Linux, Matplotlib, MPI, NumPy, OpenMP

## Experience

### University of Minnesota Physics Department Minneapolis, MN

Research Assistant 05/2009–04/2016

- Designed and implemented a simulation of electromagnetic waves in Earth’s magnetosphere.
- Performed serial and parallel benchmarks in C++ and Fortran. Restructured execution to increase
speed and decrease memory use.
- Analyzed hundreds of gigabytes of output to identify novel patterns. Created clear, handsome
plots and animations using Matplotlib.
- Presented methods and results through posters, colloquia, and workshops.

### Cray Inc St Paul, MN

Performance Intern 11/2014–12/2015

- Deployed an ensemble of nightly tests to detect bugs in Cray’s performance tools suite.
- Created a multi-process Python harness to configure programming environments, dynamically
generate source code, compile and run tests, and parse performance reports.
- Isolated bugs in the performance tools, as well as in Cray, Gnu, and Intel compilers.
- Brainstormed test features with other members of the performance tools team. Improved test
usefulness and efficiency in response to feedback.

### University of Minnesota Physics Department Minneapolis, MN

Teaching Assistant 01/2011–12/2014

- Communicated detailed concepts to audiences with varied technical backgrounds. Adapted
coaching strategies to the individual needs of at-risk students.
- Supported students outside of class through office hours, tutoring, and pizza review sessions.
- Coordinated work flow between professors, graduate teaching assistants, and undergraduate
tutors as Head TA.
- Developed exams, laboratory exercises, and other instructional materials.

## Education

### University of Minnesota Minneapolis, MN

PhD, Space Physics, Burlaga/Arctowski Medal Fellow 05/2009–04/2016

### St Olaf College Northfield, MN

BA, Math (Distinction), Physics (Distinction), Magna Cum Laude 09/2005–05/2009
