---
layout: post
title: "Dad"
image: "/assets/images/dad-thumb.png"
description: "David McEachern 1954-2017"
---

When her husband died, my great aunt spoke to me about her grief, but also her relief. For a year after the stroke, she watched her partner of six decades fade away. He was bedridden and nonverbal. There was no hope of recovery. His passing was a weight lifted from her chest.

In the same sense, dad's passing is both heartbreaking and cathartic.

Dad was diagnosed with dementia at 57. From there, watching his five-year decline was gut-wrenching. He lost his short-term memory and his sense of time. He became increasingly apathetic and sedentary. He stopped speaking. He stopped blinking.

It was impossible to know how much of him was left. Half of me ate lunch with him on Tuesdays, to give him the best possible quality of life. The other half hoped it didn't matter -- that he was already gone. I can't imagine anything more horrifying than being aware of your own mind unwinding.

With his passing, the emotional logjam has loosened, and I can try to make peace with the loss. "Dad" can be the man in my childhood memories -- not the empty-eyed body across the table, unable to chew its own pasta.

---

I remember when dad taught me to ride a bike. Well, maybe "taught" is too generous. He took off the training wheels, lifted me onto the seat, and gave me a push. Not long after that, I remember him letting me steer as I sat in front of him on a snowmobile. I gunned it and almost ran us into a tree.

Dad pushed Joey and me to be handy and outdoorsy... with mixed success. I was never particularly interested in cars, boats, or camping. The pocket knives and bike tools he bought me were rarely used. But we connected on stereo equipment, pinewood derby cars, and rare earth magnets. We played games, too -- dad had no interest in computer games, since "every possibility has already been solved," but we played Risk, foosball, and chess.

From time to time we would go swimming off the boat, or throw a ball around, but what I remember more are all the times dad encouraged my pursuit of math and science. He took us on a tour of a plant he did business with, and I remember being fascinated watching pistons punch aluminum discs into beer cans. He showed me the bright, smelly pools used for electroplating machine parts. He talked to me about the magnetic fields simulated by his CAD software.

Dad started college as a chemistry major. After a year or two, he told me, the dean recommended he take some time off from school. It may have had something to do with that time a fraternity left a keg out in the snow overnight, and dad and his buddies stole it.

He eventually went back to school, and graduated with a degree in history.

I always thought it was an odd major 



Looking at





Dad told us stories about all the jobs he'd held. He parked cars when he was twelve, he said, and would speed the sports cars up and down the length of the block. He drove a taxi, and would tip himself a twenty if he had to drag a passed-out client up onto their porch.

When Joey and I were too young to get real jobs, he found little bits of work for us at the machine shop. I scrubbed the old gray sink until it was white, and used a crowbar to move concrete stops in the parking lot. We sold parking for games and concerts at the Xcel, and sometimes got yelled at for squeezing cars in too tight.

Dad knew how to talk to people. He always seemed comfortable and confident, even in a crowd of strangers. He negotiated with the shady Craigslist dealer who sold me my first car, and charmed the elderly landlady who rented me my first apartment.





---

---

---






I don't remember him ever talking much about politics, but dad definitely had a subversive side. In 2008, we watched from his roof as a barbed wire fence went up around the RNC. The next day, we got takeout from a falafel restaurant that had been conspicuously excluded from the convention zone -- then wandered around, noting loudly how good it was.

Once, when I was in gradeschool, he let me try his beer; I hated it. Another time, he bought a handful of lottery tickets, and let Joey and me buy them from him at half price. I'm not sure if this was meant to be a lesson. I seem to recall winning a few dollars and coming out ahead.



He came by his nerdy interests honestly

never finished his chemistry major -- something about him and his buddies stealing kegs that the frat houses had left out in the snow to cool.







Dad brought home a pair of old computers from the shop.

Lined up with his love of toys.

He was a nerd.

Dad worked long hours, including a lot of travel. Some years, he would fly over 100k miles.

He made a good living, and treated himself to more than a few self-indulgent purchases.

- A little house on the Oregon coast. He would spend a few days there when flying for work. I imagine he had planned to retire out there.
- Motorcycles
- Snowmobile
- Sailboat

stops in Manzanita around trips to Asia or the Pacific coast.

While I was studying abroad in Budapest, he arranged a day-long layover there after a business trip. We visited the castle district and soaked in the steam baths.

Early adopter of new technologies. Projection TV that must have weighed a ton. First-generation MP3 player that could only hold a dozen songs. Recumbent bicycle. Wireless internet.

When we misbehaved, we would do push-ups and sit-ups. This eventually became a point of pride.

We heard some candid details about his childhood, but not too much. They moved a lot. His dad was an alcoholic. Intermittently broke.

didn't perform well in school

started out as a chemistry major, got kicked out for a year, came back and did history

stealing kegs from the frat houses

For the longest time, I believed dad was a genius at making scrambled eggs. It turns out, he just put a ton of cheese in them.

He always had a new toy. From the roof of his condo near the Science Museum, we used his giant binoculars to pick out license plates across the river.

He brought back all sorts of souvenirs from his travels.

- Razor scooter from Australia (before they were available in the US).
- Counterfeit Rolex from China (which I wore to prom).

Always watching out for scams.

At the fair, we would always go to Taco King

- "ride your bike"
- "take the bus"
- "don't force it"

ginger ale and TV when I got sick from my tetanus booster

bailing when Alec and I went through a bottle of vodka I had brought back from Poland -- even though he was on poop drugs for prostate scans.


---

---

---


My last memory of my dad, when he was still himself, has us standing in my first apartment. He had just helped me buy a car, or maybe set up some insurance. As he was leaving, he told me that he loved me. I noted to myself that saying so was out of character for him.

If he knew something was wrong, he never gave another indication.
