---
layout: post
title: "GMOs and Monsanto"
image: "/assets/images/placeholder-05-thumb.png"
description: ""
keywords: gmos
---


An old draft -- meant to follow up with Jason, but never did. 

Jason -- Here's where I an after a bit of reading about GMOs.

GM foods are safe. Thousands of studies have tested (and continue to test) the safety and nutritional value of GM foods.

The divide between GM and conventional biotech is arbitrary.

Conventionally-engineered foods are no more "natural" than GM foods.

Humans have been engineering plants and animals for millennia. Prior to the development of modern methods, genes were manipulated by interbreeding food crops with poisonous plants, grafting together living plants of different species, and even bombarding crops with radiation. Compared to what we eat now, wild bananas, corn, melons, etc are not only unrecognizable, but inedible.

corn ancestor: teosinte
banana ancestor: Musa acuminata



GM foods are everywhere. Most cheese in the US and UK is produced using rennet from GM microbes. Most papayas are genetically modified to resist the ringspot virus, for which there is no conventional treatment.

Most corn grown in this country is

GM microbes have been used to produce rennet, an expensive enzyme necessary for cheesemaking, since 1990.




GM crops are safe
GM crops are everywhere
GM crops are "natural"



Monsanto is probably about as evil as Apple, Nike, or any other giant multinational corporation. It looks like they have a shady record on some labor and environmental issues. Interestingly, the most-cited reasons that people distrust Monsanto -- legal action for natural cross-pollination and engineering crops without viable seeds -- are false. (They once sued a farmer for *intentionally* cross-pollinating. They also own the IP for the "terminator gene" but have pledged not to use it.)

Corporate practices aside, Monsanto's work seems to generally be good. Bt crops have decidedly reduced the use of pesticides. Roundup Ready crops haven't reduced herbicide use, but they have caused a shift towards glyphosate, which is significantly less toxic than the herbicides it's replacing. Monsanto is also investing heavily in research on crops that can perform in low-water and low-nitrogen environments, which is particularly relevant to farmers in developing nations.

Monsanto's controversial name has become synonymous with GM technology, which is awkward for two reasons. First, Monsanto isn't all about GMOs. It's also the world's largest supplier of non-GMO vegetable seeds. Most of Monsanto's R&D budget goes into conventional (non-GMO) biotech. Second (and more problematic), anti-Monsanto sentiment is stifling the use of GM technology from emphatically non-evil sources.




Monsanto is the world's largest supplier of non-GMO vegetable seeds.


drought-resistant crops, using both GM and conventional methods.


caused glyphosate to all but replace several more-toxic products.




They are the world's leading producer of non-GMO vegetable seeds.



Evil or not, Monsanto does a lot of important work.


; most of their R&D budget is spent on conventional hybrids.




They are investing heavily in drought resistance research, using both GM technology and conventional breeding.

Their Bt crops have decisively reduced the use of pesticides.

It's hard to find unbiased information about how Roundup Ready crops have affected herbicide use. Total herbicide use has increased along with the deployment of herbicide-resistant crops, but glyphosate is significantly less toxic than the chemicals it's replacing.











GM technology has the potential to improve the lives of billions, particularly in the developing world.

GM papaya are resistant to the ringspot virus, which was a threat to Hawaii's papaya industry in the 1990s.

GM soy has been engineered to produce healthier oils.

GM microbes have been used to produce rennet, an expensive enzyme necessary for cheesemaking, since 1990.

Bt soy, corn, etc have significantly reduced the use of pesticides.

Golden rice, developed at the University of Freiburg.

---

One of the primary motivations behind GMOs is *reduced* pesticide and herbicide use. Corn can be genetically engineered to be toxic to weevils. Roundup Ready crops can be dosed with one broad-spectrum herbicide, rather than many specific herbicides. Another common modification is drought resistance; this reduces the need for irrigation, which is extremely disruptive to the environment.

Monsanto has never sued a farmer for incidental cross-pollination. In the case you're referring to, a farmer *intentionally* sprayed his own crops with Roundup to isolate the GM corn, then harvested those seeds.

NPR does a good writeup of that, and some other GMO myths, including your "Every time you buy a GMO product, you write them a check" objection.

http://www.npr.org/sections/thesalt/2012/10/18/163034053/top-five-myths-of-genetically-modified-seeds-busted


> There are many other reasons to avoid them. I hate Monsanto. They are an evil corporation that destroys whole communities, considers food proprietary, and sues innocent farmers whose crops have naturally cross-pollinated (pesky wind and all) with their copyright crops. Every time you buy a GMO product, you write them a check. They are totally irresponsible. So, no, people who oppose GMO's are absolutely NOT conveniently ignoring science in one instance. They are justifiably suspicious of an industry that exploits people and the environment for its own financial gain. I'm curious who's behind this ridiculous FB page.

