---
layout: post
title: "Cube"
image: "/assets/images/placeholder-07-thumb.png"
description: ""
keywords: magic the gathering, cube, game design
---

I have been skeptical for a long time of Equipment's place in *Magic*. 

Flavor-wise:

- Snakes wearing boots and swinging swords, etc. 
- I'm summoning entire armies. Shouldn't I have better things to do than micromanage which soldier is using which sword? 

Mechanically:

- Two costs makes it twice as hard to dial in the appropriate power level. 
- Adds complexity, but does it actually make the game more enjoyable? 
- Complexity creep -- referring both to board state and to the learning curve for the game. 

---

Star Realms

Portal

---

In my uncommons cube (2009-2015), I experimented with cutting a lot of things. Tried no auras. No equipment. No -1/-1 counters. Cut it down to four colors (no red, then no white).  

Even when things get cut, the game still feels like *Magic*. Equipment probably less important than most. 

New cube -- interested in keeping it simple. Not particularly inclined to put equipment back in. 

But why stop there? I have complete freedom over the contents of the cube. How simple can things be while still being *Magic*? 

---

Remember Portal? It was boring *Magic*, but definitely still *Magic*. No equipment. No auras. No combat tricks or counterspells (with exceptions). 

In some ways, at least to me, this feels more like *Magic* than what I play normally... there's no draw-go, no shenanigans on end step, no rules lawyering. 

MaRo pointed out when damage came off the stack -- it's not dumbing down the game. It's actually making it more skill-intensive. 

Old way: Savannah Lions attacks into your Sakura-Tribe Elder. You put damage on the stack then sacrifice. New way: you have to choose if you want to kill the lions or if you want the land. 

Choosing between two real options rather than knowing the correct rules loophole. 

---

How much can be stripped out? 

Developers of Star Realms considered this question. They made a whole new game which resembles *Magic* in some ways. 

Let's take some inspiration from them. Don't actually touch the rules -- we're still playing **Magic** -- but make card selections in a way that we care about relatively little of the rulebook. 

Everything as simple as possible, but no simpler. Make sure we don't make the game uninteresting! 

Note that WOTC already does this to some degree. 

Usually a block (all drafted together) will emphasize +1/+1 counters OR equipment OR auras. In SOM, with -1/-1 counters, there were no cards in the whole block which made +1/+1 counters. 

---

No auras or equipment -- let +1/+1 counters fill that role. 

No -1/-1 counters -- let's be unambiguous about what dice mean on a creature. 

No upkeep triggers -- let's just pretend the upkeep step doesn't exist. 

getting a bit extreme...

No artifacts or enchantments. The game is about resources (lands), immediate effects (sorceries), and ongoing effects (creatures). Let's get rid of the minigame where I play Moat and you have to hope to draw your Disenchant (which has no purpose other than to kill Moat). 

Planeswalkers pass this test -- but they are clearly not a core part of the game. Limited is *Magic*, and has essentially zero of them. 

That's something I really like about Star Realms. The same sort of attacks that hit the opponent can also be directed to blow up their stuff. There's no minigame of specific classes of removal. 

getting VERY extreme...

No instants. No flash. No instant-speed activated abilities (except mana abilities). 

Basically, you play out your turn. No pausing when you go to combat. No combat tricks. No end step shenanigans. You draw, you play your turn, and you pass it back. The only thing your opponent does on your turn (other than sometimes resolve triggers) is assign blockers. 

No scrying or other library manipulation. No searching. You shuffle your deck once at the start, and it remains shuffled. 

---

Combat is still interesting because spells can still be cast before or after. 

Chump blocking and gang blocking are still a thing. You can't get blown out by a trick, but you still have to make hard choices. 

They attack a little guy into your big guy. Are they trying to soften him up for the burn spell in their hand, since they have no other answer? Or are they trying to bluff through a little bit of damage?

Haste becomes very powerful. 




