---
layout: post
title: "Resume"
image: "/assets/images/charles-thumb.png"
description: Placeholder description.
author: charles
---

<span class="pool">
    <span class="floater">
        <i class="fa fa-link" aria-hidden="true"></i> [`charles.uno`](http://charles.uno)
    </span>
    <span class="floater">
        <i class="fa fa-envelope-o" aria-hidden="true"></i> [`ch@rles.uno`](mailto:ch@rles.uno)
    </span>
    <span class="floater">
        <i class="fa fa-github" aria-hidden="true"></i> [`charles_uno`](https://github.com/charles-uno)
    </span>
    <span class="floater">
        <i class="fa fa-phone" aria-hidden="true"></i> [`651-269-9245`](tel:6512699245)
    </span>
</span>

## Skills

### Languages

Bash, C++, Fortran, Python, some experience with HTML/CSS and JavaScript

### Tools

BeautifulSoup, git, \LaTeX, Linux, Matplotlib, MPI, NumPy, OpenMP

## Experience

<span class="pool">
<span class="floater">
**Cray Inc**
</span>
<span class="floater">
Bloomington, MN
</span>
</span>
<span class="pool">
<span class="floater">
Software Engineer III
</span>
<span class="floater">
05/2016–Present
</span>
</span>


- Implemented an end-to-end built pipeline using Jenkins and Docker. Automatically compile, test, package, and distribute code on commit. Replaced a thirty-year tangle of cron jobs, corner cases, and hotfixes.


- Developed APIs for control and testing of the programming environment, liquid cooling, and post-package memory repair.
- Designed and implemented a parallel, plugin-based Python module for scraping, parsing, and analysis of supercomputer system logs.
- Administered boots, upgrades, and patches for the test team's 200-node mainframe.
- Spearheaded the tracking and consolidation of automated tools to modernize test infrastructure.

<span class="pool">
<span class="floater">
**UMN Physics Department**
</span>
<span class="floater">
Minneapolis, MN
</span>
</span>
<span class="pool">
<span class="floater">
Graduate Student
</span>
<span class="floater">
05/2009–04/2016
</span>
</span>

- Built, benchmarked, and optimized a high-performance simulation of electromagnetic waves in Earth's magnetosphere.
- Analyzed hundreds of gigabytes of output to identify novel patterns. Presented methods and results via colloquia and workshops.
- Communicated detailed concepts to audiences with varied technical backgrounds.
- Coordinated work flow between professors, graduate teaching assistants, and undergraduate tutors as Head TA.

<span class="pool">
<span class="floater">
**Cray Inc**
</span>
<span class="floater">
St Paul, MN
</span>
</span>
<span class="pool">
<span class="floater">
Performance Intern
</span>
<span class="floater">
11/2014–12/2015
</span>
</span>

- Created a parallel harness to run nightly tests against Cray's performance analysis tools.
- Automated the configuration of programming environments, generation of source code, and parsing of performance reports.
- Isolated bugs in the performance tools, as well as in Cray, Gnu, and Intel compilers.
- Tailored test cases to the needs of the performance tools team. Responded promptly to feedback.










## Education

### University of Minnesota Minneapolis, MN

PhD, Space Physics, Burlaga/Arctowski Medal Fellow 05/2009–04/2016

### St Olaf College Northfield, MN

BA, Math (Distinction), Physics (Distinction), Magna Cum Laude 09/2005–05/2009
