---
layout: post
title: "Year of the Titan"
image: "/assets/images/thumb/primeval-titan-aleksi-briclot.png"
description: Using better-than-perfect sequencing to get Primeval Titan on the table
tags: games stem
---

[[Primeval Titan]] was first printed in 2010. For the next nine years, WOTC walked on eggshells to avoid further enabling it. [[Primeval Titan:Titan]] decks got a new sideboard card here and there, but both Amulet and Valakut remained built around a backbone of older cards:

- Zendikar Block (2009-2010) -- [[Amulet of Vigor]], [[Ancient Stirrings]], [[Bojuka Bog]], [[Explore]], [[Valakut, the Molten Pinnacle:Valakut]]
- Lorwyn Block (2007-2008) -- [[Prismatic Omen]], [[Scapeshift]]
- Time Spiral Block (2006-2007) -- [[Pact of Negation]], [[Search for Tomorrow]], [[Summoner's Pact]], [[Tolaria West]], [[Vesuva]]
- Ravnica Block (2005-2006) -- [[Farseek]], [[Ghost Quarter]], [[Simic Growth Chamber]]
- Kamigawa Block (2004-2005) -- [[Azusa, Lost but Seeking:Azusa]], [[Sakura-Tribe Elder]], [[Sakura-Tribe Scout]]







Primeval Titan was first printed in M11 (2010). 
Amulet, Stirrings, Explore, and Bojuka Bog are from Zendikar (2009). 
Tolaria West, Gemstone Mine, Vesuva, and Pacts are from Time Spiral (2006)
Bounce lands and Ghost Quarter are from Ravnica (2005). 
STS and Azusa were printed all the way back in Kamigawa (2004) -- the first prereleases I ever went to! 







For the bulk of the Modern era, WOTC hasn't printed new cards for Amulet Titan. 

The backbone of the deck is more than a decade oldfrom was printed in [[Azusa, Lost but Seeking:Kamigawa]] [[Sakura-Tribe Scout:block]] (2004), [[Simic Growth Chamber:Ravnica]] [[Ghost Quarter:block]] (2005), [[Tolaria West:Time]] [[Vesuva:Spiral]] [[Summoner's Pact:block]] (2006), [[Amulet of Vigor:Zendikar]] [[Ancient Stirrings:block]] (2009), and [[Primeval Titan:M11]] (2010). 

[[Scapeshift




Primeval Titan was first printed in M11 (2010). 
Amulet, Stirrings, Explore, and Bojuka Bog are from Zendikar (2009). 
Tolaria West, Gemstone Mine, Vesuva, and Pacts are from Time Spiral (2006)
Bounce lands and Ghost Quarter are from Ravnica (2005). 
STS and Azusa were printed all the way back in Kamigawa (2004) -- the first prereleases I ever went to! 






Starting in late 2018, WOTC [dialed up the power level](https://magic.wizards.com/en/articles/archive/feature/play-design-lessons-learned-2019-11-18) of the cards they printed. 

Predictably, some things got banned. 

https://magic.wizards.com/en/articles/archive/news/august-26-2019-banned-and-restricted-announcement-2019-08-26
https://magic.wizards.com/en/articles/archive/news/october-21-2019-banned-and-restricted-announcement
https://magic.wizards.com/en/articles/archive/news/november-18-2019-banned-and-restricted-announcement
https://magic.wizards.com/en/articles/archive/news/january-13-2020-banned-and-restricted-announcement

They've been printing cards so fast, it's tough to know what to do with them. 

Inundated with new options. Faster than we can figure out what to do with them. 

OUAT was so powerful that we barely noticed Castle Garenbrig. 

By the time we found a place for Castle, they'd printed Dryad. 

And there's still no consensus on whether Grazer is a suitable replacement for STS! 






Cards printed in the past year have been off the charts in terms of power level. 

In the past year, WOTC has printed more cards for Amulet Titan than we've ever seen. 
WOTC has printed more cards for Amulet Titan in the past year than they did in the rest of the Modern era combined. 

Primeval Titan was first printed in M11 (2010). 
Amulet, Stirrings, Explore, and Bojuka Bog are from Zendikar (2009). 
Tolaria West, Gemstone Mine, Vesuva, and Pacts are from Time Spiral (2006)
Bounce lands and Ghost Quarter are from Ravnica (2005). 
STS and Azusa were printed all the way back in Kamigawa (2004) -- the first prereleases I ever went to! 

Commentary: the changes are good! Get some of the weird stuff out of there. Shorten turns. Less mana floating, less shuffling, fewer extra land drops to keep track of. 

Justin Cohen, Bloom Titan, 2nd place at PT Fate Reforgedhttps://www.mtgtop8.com/event?e=9064&d=251633&f=MO

Amulet Titan came into the spotlight when Justin Cohen took second place in PT Fate Reforged (2015), but at that point all the cards were already old. 
Ruric Thar 2018Ballista, Tracker 2016Radiant Fountain, Hornet Queen 2014Swan Song 2013Cavern, Slayer's Stronghold 2012
Other than a bit of turbulence in the Modern format, the past year has been nothing but good news for Amulet Titan players. 

WAR gave us Grazer, the first real competition for STS in fifteen years. M20 printed FOTD, diversifying the threat base at minimal deckbuilding cost. MH1 had FOV, the best answer to Blood Moon we've ever seen. 
ELD printed both OUAT, the best cantrip we've ever seen, as well as Castle Garenbrig, a card tailor-made for Primeval Titan. Most recently, THB gave us Dryad, a knock-off Azusa that dominates the board in combination with Valakut. 
KGC was a short-lived alternate win condition

The past year has been good to Amulet Titan. KCI, a bad matchup, got banned. M20 brought FOTD, swing the deck to diversify its threat base at minimal cost.
GrazerFOTDOUATCastleDryad

In fact, new cards have been coming out



 are perhaps the best Amulet Titan has ever seen. 







The past twelve months shook up Modern like nothing we've ever seen.
WOTC banned Faithless Looting and Mox Opal, both long-time format staples.

And, due to a change in WOTC design philosophy, a bunch of other cards were printed

Cards printed in 2019 were off the charts in terms of power level. 
Oko
Hogaak
KCI

We saw more cards banned and restricted, in more formats, than any time in the Modern era.

On Wed, Feb 19, 2020, 10:41 AM Charles Fyfe <charles.andrew.fyfe@gmail.com> wrote:
Cards printed in 2019 were off the charts in terms of power level.

Hogaak dominated Modern for months, even after the banning of Bridge from Below.

Oko has been banned from every format that doesn't allow dual lands.

Of the nine[^2] cards currently banned from Pioneer (which goes back
to 2014), five were printed in 2019.

WAR saw two cards restricted in Vintage; only two other sets[^1] in
the Modern era share this dubious honor.

[^1]: Mental Misstep and Gitaxian Probe (NPH), Treasure Cruise and Dig
Through Time (KTK)

[^2]: Not counting fetch lands. They were excluded to cut down on
shuffling, rather than banned for power level.

KGC, Narset restricted in Vintage
Astrolabe banned in Pauper
Leyline of Abundance banned in Pioneer
Hogaak
Oko
OUAT, FOTD, Veil banned in Standard and Pioneer






On Wed, Feb 19, 2020 at 9:04 AM Charles Fyfe
<charles.andrew.fyfe@gmail.com> wrote:
>
> Primeval Titan is the best it's ever been
>
> Cards printed in 2019 were off the charts in terms of power level. In Modern, the biggest beneficiary was Primeval Titan.
>
> FOTD and OUAT banned in Standard and Pioneer.
>
> Castle Garenbrig and Dryad, while not obviously problematic, are slam dunks
>
> Arboreal Grazer is the first real competition for Sakura-Tribe Scout since its printing in 2005.
>
> Primeval Titan decks are getting new cards so fast it's tough to figure out how to use them
>
> All the slack went out of the deck really fast
>
> OUAT pushed out Karn, which took Stirrings with it
>
>
