---
layout: post
title: "Why Biden 2024"
image: "/files/why-biden-2024/joe-biden-thumb.png"
description: "They've both done the job. Biden did it better, and it's not close."
tags: politics
---

For the first time in over a century, both[^1] candidates for president of the USA have already held the office. 
This gives us the rare opportunity to make a direct comparison between them. 
Skip the pearl-clutching about Biden's age[^2] or Trump's crimes[^3]. 
Who did the job better?

I believe the answer is Biden, and I don't believe it's close.
His priorities are better.
He is more effective at enacting them.
You can check my work below.

[^1]: Under a parliamentary system, like in the UK, there can be three or more viable political parties. They form coalitions to create a majority government. The Electoral College makes that nearly impossible in the USA. Credible politicians here stick to the two major parties, and third parties are a joke. For example, despite 30+ years of attempts, the Green Party has [never won any election for state or federal office][green_officeholders]. Jill Stein, the Green candidate for president, has a laughably weak résumé: she served one-and-a-half terms on city council. 

[^2]: Biden is older than dirt. Not ideal, obviously, but I think the issue has been overblown. The president's job is mostly shaking hands and signing things. Pretty much everything else gets delegated out. The important thing is the effectiveness of the Biden *administration*. 

[^3]: [Trump was convicted][trump_conviction] of business fraud after leaving office. Not ideal, obviously, but history shows that sometimes a slimeball can be an effective president. Just look at [LBJ][lbj_slimeball] or [Bill Clinton][clinton_slimeball]. Better to judge Trump by the performance of his administration. 


## COVID and the Economy

When Trump took office, [the economy was strong][obama_economy]. 
When he left office, it was in the shitter. 
COVID wasn't his fault of course, but his hands aren't exactly clean:

- Trump [badly mismanaged the COVID pandemic][trump_covid_mismanagement_analysis]. He repeatedly downplayed the severity of the virus, elevated conspiracy theories, and discouraged masking and vaccination. The COVID death rate under Trump was much [very high][trump_covid_mismanagement_impact] compared to other wealthy nations, to the tune of 150,000 preventable American deaths. 
- Trump's signature piece of legislation was a [$1.5 trillion tax cut][trump_tax_cuts] which [mostly benefited wealthy households and big corporations][trump_tax_cuts_analysis]. The long-term effects of the tax cut are hard to judge due to COVID. But judging from [analysis][bush_tax_cut_analysis] of similar tax cuts in the past, the Trump tax cuts probably did not contribute significantly to economic growth.
- To his credit, Trump did sign $3 trillion in COVID [stimulus][trump_stimulus] [spending][trump_additional_stimulus]. The bills passed Congress with overwhelming support from both parties. 

On the other hand, Biden inherited a trainwreck and turned it around. 
He dumped trillions of federal dollars into the economy.
And it seems to have paid off. 
The USA experienced a [smoother post-Covid recovery than other wealthy nations][post_covid_gdp]: lower unemployment, slower inflation, and faster GDP growth.
[Wages are rising][wage_growth], especially for [low-income workers][low_income_wages]. 
Income inequality is [falling][income_inequality_falling]. 

- Democrats passed an additional $2 trillion COVID stimulus without GOP support. This made the USA one of the [most generous][g20_stimulus_comparison] nations in terms of COVID spending. 
- Biden then signed another $2 trillion in spending on [infrastructure][biden_infrastructure_bill], [green energy][ira], and [high-tech manufacturing][chips]. 

[covid_death_partisan_gap]: https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2022/03/03/the-changing-political-geography-of-covid-19-over-the-last-two-years/
[trump_covid_mismanagement_impact]: https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/feb/10/us-coronavirus-response-donald-trump-health-policy
[trump_covid_mismanagement_analysis]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9115435/
[bush_tax_cuts]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bush_tax_cuts

[obama_economy]: https://www.npr.org/2018/09/12/646708799/fact-check-who-gets-credit-for-the-booming-u-s-economy
[trump_covid_relief_veto_threat]: https://www.reuters.com/article/business/trump-threatens-to-not-sign-covid-19-bill-wants-bigger-stimulus-checks-idUSKBN28X01U/
[trump_additional_stimulus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consolidated_Appropriations_Act,_2021
[bush_tax_cut_analysis]: https://www.cbpp.org/research/the-legacy-of-the-2001-and-2003-bush-tax-cuts

## Signature Legislation

Trump held unified GOP control of the government for two years, but didn't pass much legislation: 

- [CARES Act][trump_stimulus] (bipartisan) - $2,200 billion COVID stimulus.
- [Tax Cuts and Jobs Act][trump_tax_cuts] - $1,500 billion in tax cuts which [mostly benefited high-income households and corporations][trump_tax_cuts_analysis]. This law also eliminated the [Obamacare individual mandate][trump_aca_mandate_repeal].
- [EGRRCPA][trump_bank_deregulation] (bipartisan) - loosened some of the banking restrictions put in place after the 2008 financial crisis.
- The Border Wall - About $5 billion for barriers on the US-Mexico border, split between [2018][wall_funding_2018] and [2019][wall_funding_2019] appropriations bills. Negotiations over border wall funding stalled repeatedly, leading to the [longest givernment shutdown in US history][trump_wall_shutdown]. Trump ultimately declared a national emergency, bypassing Congress and redirecting funding from elsewhere.

Biden also had a unified government for his first two years. 
He passed several notable bills during that time, then a few more bipartisan ones with a divided government:

- [American Rescue Plan][biden_stimulus_bill] - $1,900 billion for a second round of COVID stimulus. 
- [Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act][biden_infrastructure_bill] (bipartisan) - $1,200 billion to modernize roads, bridges, broadband, public transit, etc.
- [Inflation Reduction Act][ira] - $500 billion for clean energy, the largest such investment in history. This spending was offset by an [estimated $700 billion][ira_cbo] in corporate tax hikes and IRS crackdowns on wealthy tax cheats.
- [CHIPs and Science Act][biden_chips] (bipartisan) - $300 billion for domestic high-tech manufacturing and supply chains.
- [Safer Communities Act][biden_gun_control] (bipartisan) - $10 billion for school safety, first responders, crisis intervention programs, etc. This bill also expanded background checks, red flag rules, etc. This is the first federal gun safety law in nearly 30 years.
- [Electoral Count Reform Act][biden_electoral_reform] (bipartisan) - Updates and clarifications to the presidential election process. This law closes the loopholes that [Trump attempted to use in 2020 to overturn the election][trump_fake_electors].
- [Respect for Marriage Act][biden_marriage_bill] (bipartisan) - Established protections for same-sex and interracial marriages in case the conservative Supreme Court majority [overturns][thomas_overturn_marriage] the 2015 [marriage equality ruling][obergefell].


## Foreign Policy

Trump's foreign policy showed a distrust for multinational institutions.
He prefers to pick a side. 
He scored a few wins, but overall he was isolationist and belligerent:

- Trump [blocked military aid][trump_ukraine_scandal] to Ukraine in 2019, then tried to blackmail them into fabricating dirt on his political opponents. He was impeached (though acquitted) for doing so. At Trump's suggestion, Republican legislators also [delayed aid to Ukraine][trump_ukraine_2024] for several months in 2024.
- Trump [destroyed the multinational Iran Deal by withdrawing US support][trump_iran_deal]. This deal had been effective at preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons. He promised to negotiate a better deal, but never did. 
- Trump supported Israel, with no consideration for Palestinian sovereignty. He [withdrew US support][trump_peace_plan] for a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine. He endorsed further [Israeli settlements][trump_peace_plan] on occupied land. He [halted humanitarian aid][trump_halted_aid] to Palestine. And he officially [recognized Jerusalem as the capital if Israel][trump_jerusalem][^5]. Each of these actions broke decades of bipartisan precedent.
- Trump [normalized relations][trump_abraham_accords] between Israel and several nearby Arab states. 
- Trump started a trade war with China. Agricultural tariffs hit American producers hard, necessitating a [$20 billion bailout][trump_farm_bailout]. 
- Trump withdrew the US from the [Paris Climate Agreement][trump_paris_agreement] to mitigate climate change. He also withdrew US membership from the [World Health Organization][trump_who], [UN Human Rights Council][trump_un_hrc], and [UNESCO][trump_unesco]. He [threatened to withdraw the US from NATO][trump_nato], but did not follow through. 
- [Trump reduced troop levels in Afghanistan][afghanistan_withdrawal] from 18,000 to 3,000 and set a timetable for a complete withdrawal (which happened under Biden). 
- [Trump met with the dictator of North Korea][trump_north_korea], the first sitting president to do so. The talks were not productive.
- [Trump launched airstrikes against government targets in Syria][trump_syria_airstrike] in 2018, in response to Assad's use of chemical weapons. The strikes were supported by NATO and a handful of other nations. 
- Trump negotiated [updates to NAFTA][trump_nafta], the trade agreement between Canada, Mexico, and the USA. It's not yet clear if the changes were significant.

[^5]: The status of Jerusalem is a long-standing obstacle to peace in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The city is culturally important to both sides. 

Biden's foreign policy was far more conventional.
He is a believer in global institutions and US leadership on the world stage.
He also scaled back US military actions overseas. 

- Biden led the international response to [Russia's invasion of Ukraine][biden_ukraine_leadership]. He has signed [$175 billion][biden_ukraine_aid] in military and humanitarian aid. He also established [clear guardrails][biden_ukraine_guardrails] to prevent direct conflict between nuclear powers.
- Biden strengthened relationships with [Australia][biden_pacific_australia], [India][biden_pacific_india], [Japan][biden_pacific_japan_korea], [Papua New Guinea][biden_pacific_png], [the Phillipines][biden_pacific_phillipines], and [South Korea][biden_pacific_japan_korea] in order to counter aggressive behavior from China and North Korea. 
- Biden sent support to Israel after the October 2023 terrorist attack and Israel's subsequent invasion of Gaza[^4]. He also leveraged the close US-Israel relationship to pursue peace. He talked Israel back from the [water siege of Gaza][gaza_water_siege]. He brokered a [week-long ceasefire][gaza_ceasefire_2023] in November 2023, and is [pursuing another][ceasefire_work_2024]. He has repeatedly urged Israel to minimize civilian casualties, even threatening to [withhold arms][rafah_arms]. He built a [temporary port][gaza_port] off Gaza for faster delivery of humanitarian aid. And he's pushing for [Palestinian statehood][palestinian_statehood] as part of a postwar plan.
- [Biden withdrew the last US forces from Afghanistan][afghanistan_withdrawal], ending 20 years of occupation. The withdrawal itself was chaotic. Kabul fell to the Taliban as soon as US forces left.
- Biden pretty much ended the drone war. [Drone strikes are down by 95%][biden_drone_war] compared to Trump. 
- Biden launched [airstrikes against Houthi militants in Yemen][biden_houthi_airstrikes] to stop their attacks on commercial vessels in the Red Sea. The strikes were supported by NATO and a handful of other nations. Biden issues numerous warnings in a week leading up to the strikes. 
- Biden rejoined the the Paris Climate Accords, World Health Organization, UN Human Rights Council, and UNESCO. 

[^4]: Hamas launches terrorist attacks at Israel (rockets, [suicide bombers][wiki_hamas_suicide_bombers], [sexual violence][hamas_rape]) then hide in the [tunnels under Palestinian cities][hamas_tunnels_not_bunkers]. Israel responds by bombing and [blockading][gaza_blockade] those cities, inevitably radicalizing the next round of militants. Experts have called this the world's [most intractable conflict][most_intractable_conflict]. Last October saw Hamas's largest attack yet: over a thousand Israeli civilians killed in a single day, plus hundreds more taken hostage. Israel responded by invading Gaza to eradicate Hamas once and for all. The civilian toll has been [catastrophic][gaza_casualties]: tens of thousands dead, over a million displaced, infrastructure in ruins. It's a humanitarian crisis.

## Immigration and the Border

We have 10+ million immigrants living in the USA without documentation, with more showing up all the time. 
This issue is trotted out every election season because it sounds scary. 
It's mostly hot air. 
Undocumented immigrants grow the economy by working and spending. 
They [pay more in taxes][immigrants_good_for_economy] than they use in benefits. 
And they have a [lower crime rate][illegal_immigrant_low_crime] than native-born Americans. 
More than anything else, the presence of millions of undocumented immigrants points to a broken immigration system. 

- Biden negotiated a [bipartisan immigration reform bill in 2023][immigration_bill_2023]. The bill would have increased security at the border, especially related to drug smuggling, and also included funding to speed up the years-long asylum process. Republicans withdrew support for the bill at Trump's request. 
- Trump implemented a policy of [separating families at the border][family_separation] to deter immigrants and asylum seekers. Parents were deported or jailed. Thousands of children (including infants) were held in federal custody. A judge later ordered Trump to reunite the families, but poor recordkeeping made it difficult to do so.
- Trump faced off with Congress over funding for a border wall, resulting in a [month-long government shutdown][trump_wall_shutdown]. Trump ultimately got some funding from Congress and redirected additional funding from other projects. In total he built [50 miles of new wall][trump_wall_outcome] of the proposed 1,300 miles. 
- Trump also [steeply reduced refugee resettlement][usa_refugees_by_year] while in office, and completely blocked [immigration][trump_muslim_ban] and [refugee resettlement][trump_refugees] from Muslim-majority nations.

## Executive Orders and Appointments

Trump's executive orders and judicial appointments were about what you would expect for a Republican. 
He loosened environmental regulations, reduced safety net coverage for low-income Americans, and appointed judges hostile to reproductive rights:

- Trump appointed three justices to the US Supreme Court. He promised that they would overturn Roe v Wade. [They did][dobbs]. Women in many states can no longer access abortions, [even in the case of emergencies][emergency_abortion_post_dobbs]. 


- Trump 


- Trump [repealed Obama-era regulations][repeal_obama_energy_regulations] on polution by oil and gas companies, as well as fuel efficiency standards for auto manufacturers. 
- Trump [cracked down on robocalls][trump_robocalls]. 
- Trump made it [more difficult to access SNAP][trump_snap_cuts] (food stamps). As a result, nearly a million low-income Americans lost access to benefits.
- Trump made several attempts to [sabotage Obamacare][trump_aca_mandate_repeal], such as defunding the enrollment website and blocking subsidy payments. The uninsured rate went up for the first time since Obamacare went into effect.

Likewise, Biden signed off on core Democratic priorities. 
He expanded worker rights, pushed back on predatory business practices, forgave student loan debt, and appointed progressive judges:

- Biden has forgiven [$100+ billion in student loans][biden_student_loans] for millions of borrowers. 
- Biden's NLRB has made it [easier for workers to organize][nlrb]. Union membership is up, and 2023 was the biggest year for strikes in decades. Biden also [expanded access to overtime pay][biden_overview] for working-class Americans.
- Biden confirmed [200+ federal judges][biden_judges], many of whom are former public defenders and civil rights lawyers. 
- Biden [rescheduled marijuana][biden_reschedule_marijuana] from Category I (heroin, LSD) to Category III (ketamine, testosterone). 
- Biden put [new regulations in place][biden_overview] to combat predatory college loans, limit overdraft fees, and mitigate discriminatory lending. 

## Honoring Election Results

In a regular election season, we wouldn't even need to talk about this one. 
In fact, it's horrifying that we do.

- When Trump won the 2020 election, Obama and Biden left office without incident. 
- When Biden won the 2020 election, Trump conspired to overthrow the republic. He called the top election official in Georgia and [pressured him to fabricate votes][ga_sos_call]. He recruited electors in seven states to submit [fraudulent results][trump_fake_electors]. He [incited a mob][jan_6] to storm the capitol and disrupt the certification of his loss. Trump has been impeached and indicted for these actions, and [hundreds of rioters][jan_6_convictions] have been convicted. He still [refuses to accept his loss][trump_rejects_loss].
- Biden then signed [updates to the election process][biden_electoral_reform] to close the loopholes Trump attempted to exploit.

## Summary 

Trump's record paints him as a knee-jerk reactionary. 
He seems less interested in policy outcomes, and more interested in picking fights. 
He struggled to get his priorities through Congress. 
He walked away from America's position of global leadership. 






Biden is an effective center-left leader. 
He shepherded an impressive amount of legislation through Congress, including big investments in infrastructure and green energy. 
He strengthened global alliances. 
He moved the ball forward on core progressive priorities such as student loan debt and labor rights. 
And, perhaps most importantly, he was a steady hand on the wheel.



Trump is a knee-jerk reactionary with a messiah complex.
More interested in picking fights, less interested in policy outcomes. 


Biden is x. Big accomplishments include

Trump prioritized Y. You can tell because

One of these men will be sworn in as POTUS next year. 
Please vote to help ensure it's the better one.

[dobbs]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dobbs_v._Jackson_Women%27s_Health_Organization
[trump_syria_airstrike]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/April_2018_missile_strikes_against_Syria#Supranational_organizations
[trump_nato]: https://apnews.com/article/trump-nato-presidential-election-congress-republicans-20e902788e8701999ce0424f73d478cc
[trump_ukraine_2024]: https://www.reuters.com/world/us/biden-pushes-republicans-ukraine-israel-aid-bill-trump-opposes-2024-02-14/
[russia_ukraine_war]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russo-Ukrainian_War
[biden_ukraine_guardrails]: https://www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2022-03-15/biden-stands-firm-against-no-fly-zone-as-zelenskyy-prepares-to-address-congress
[biden_ukraine_aid]: https://www.crfb.org/blogs/congressionally-approved-ukraine-aid-totals-175-billion
[trump_ukraine_scandal]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump%E2%80%93Ukraine_scandal
[biden_ukraine_leadership]: https://www.politico.com/news/2023/02/21/biden-ukraine-russia-nato-democracy-00083812
[afghanistan_withdrawal]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020%E2%80%932021_U.S._troop_withdrawal_from_Afghanistan
[trump_paris_agreement]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_withdrawal_from_the_Paris_Agreement
[illegal_immigrant_low_crime]: https://www.npr.org/2024/03/08/1237103158/immigrants-are-less-likely-to-commit-crimes-than-us-born-americans-studies-find
[immigrants_good_for_economy]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_impact_of_illegal_immigrants_in_the_United_States
[trump_wall_outcome]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump_wall#Outcome
[trump_wall_shutdown]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2018%E2%80%932019_United_States_federal_government_shutdown
[trump_wall]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump_wall
[immigration_bill_2023]: https://www.factcheck.org/2024/02/unraveling-misinformation-about-bipartisan-immigration-bill/
[family_separation]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump_administration_family_separation_policy
[green_officeholders]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Party_of_the_United_States#Officeholders
[clinton_slimeball]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Clinton_sexual_assault_and_misconduct_allegations
[lbj_slimeball]: https://www.oklahoman.com/story/news/1999/08/08/lady-bird-details-lyndon-johnsons-dark-side/62233019007/
[trump_conviction]: https://apnews.com/article/trump-trial-deliberations-jury-testimony-verdict-85558c6d08efb434d05b694364470aa0
[wiki_hamas_suicide_bombers]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Palestinian_suicide_attacks
[gwb_against_settlements_gaza_aid]: https://reliefweb.int/report/israel/bush-pledges-50-million-aid-palestinians-gaza
[gaza_blockade]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockade_of_the_Gaza_Strip
[trump_jerusalem]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_recognition_of_Jerusalem_as_capital_of_Israel
[trump_peace_plan]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump_peace_plan
[trump_halted_aid]: https://www.reuters.com/article/idUSKCN1L923C/
[trump_refugees]: https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2019/10/07/key-facts-about-refugees-to-the-u-s/
[trump_muslim_ban]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_Order_13769
[most_intractable_conflict]: https://press.un.org/en/1997/19970610.ga9250.html
[gaza_port]: https://www.reuters.com/world/us/biden-announce-gaza-aid-port-construction-state-union-speech-2024-03-07/
[ceasefire_work_2024]: https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/benjamin-netanyahu-says-israel-committed-to-gaza-ceasefire-proposal-5963017
[no_lebanon_strike]: https://www.wsj.com/world/middle-east/how-biden-averted-a-second-front-by-convincing-israel-not-to-attack-hezbollah-on-oct-11-e14a0a3b
[palestinian_statehood]: https://apnews.com/article/israel-hamas-war-news-01-18-2024-73d552c6e73e0dc3783a0a11b2b5f67d
[gaza_ceasefire_2023]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2023_Israel%E2%80%93Hamas_ceasefire
[gaza_casualties]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Casualties_of_the_Israel%E2%80%93Hamas_war
[hamas_rape]: https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2024/3/4/reasonable-grounds-to-believe-hamas-committed-sexual-violence-un
[hamas_tunnels_not_bunkers]: https://www.memri.org/reports/hamas-official-mousa-abu-marzouk-tunnels-gaza-were-built-protect-hamas-fighters-not
[rafah_arms]: https://www.reuters.com/world/biden-says-bombs-us-has-paused-sending-israel-have-killed-civilians-2024-05-08/
[gaza_water_siege]: https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-12633015/gaza-water-israel-palestine-war-president-joe-biden-benjamin-netanyahu.html
[trump_unesco]: https://www.vox.com/world/2017/10/12/16464778/unesco-us-withdrawal-trump
[trump_un_hrc]: https://apnews.com/article/9c5b1005f064474f9a0825ab84a16e91
[trump_who]: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-53327906
[emergency_abortion_post_dobbs]: https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2022/07/16/abortion-miscarriage-ectopic-pregnancy-care/
[dobbs_collateral_damage]: https://apnews.com/article/abortion-science-health-medication-lupus-e4042947e4cc0c45e38837d394199033
[trump_abraham_accords]: https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/trump-middle-east-accords/2020/10/31/f0585dec-19fc-11eb-aeec-b93bcc29a01b_story.html
[trump_farm_bailout]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump_administration_farmer_bailouts
[trump_robocalls]: https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/law-robocalls/story?id=68008423
[trump_iran_deal]: https://responsiblestatecraft.org/iran-nuclear-deal/
[repeal_obama_energy_regulations]: https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2021/01/18/trump-presidency-administration-biggest-impact-policy-analysis-451479
[trump_snap_cuts]: https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2021/01/18/trump-presidency-administration-biggest-impact-policy-analysis-451479
[trump_nafta]: https://apnews.com/article/us-mexico-trade-jobs-nafta-trump-usmca-4c6a51df6ebcd2acf5c6863012f9777b
[trump_north_korea]: https://www.wilsoncenter.org/blog-post/donald-trumps-north-korea-gambit-what-worked-what-didnt-and-whats-next
[biden_overview]: https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2024/02/02/joe-biden-30-policy-things-you-might-have-missed-00139046
[biden_otc_birth_control]: https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2024/02/02/joe-biden-30-policy-things-you-might-have-missed-00139046
[biden_reschedule_marijuana]: https://apnews.com/article/marijuana-biden-dea-criminal-justice-pot-f833a8dae6ceb31a8658a5d65832a3b8
[juneteenth]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Juneteenth
[predatory_loan_reform]: https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2024/02/02/joe-biden-30-policy-things-you-might-have-missed-00139046
[nlrb]: https://uwua.net/2023/10/president-bidens-union-record/
[more_strikes]: https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2024/02/21/strikes-2023-workers-labor-department/
[biden_judges]: https://civilrights.org/blog/biden-150-lifetime-judicial-confirmations/
[biden_student_loans]: https://www.reuters.com/world/us/biden-administration-cancel-another-12-bln-student-loans-2024-02-21/
[biden_drone_war]: https://www.newamerica.org/future-security/reports/americas-counterterrorism-wars/the-war-in-yemen/
[biden_pacific_phillipines]: https://www.politico.com/news/2023/02/02/us-philippines-china-taiwan-american-military-00080837
[biden_pacific_png]: https://www.reuters.com/world/modi-blinken-meet-pacific-island-leaders-papua-new-guinea-2023-05-21/
[biden_pacific_india]: https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/3586231/austin-marks-transformative-ties-with-india-at-talks-in-new-delhi/
[biden_pacific_australia]: https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2023/07/31/asia-pacific/politics/us-australia-defense-cooperation-china/
[biden_pacific_japan_korea]: https://www.politico.com/news/2023/08/18/at-camp-david-biden-hails-next-era-of-partnership-between-us-south-korea-and-japan-00111901
[trump_rejects_loss]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attempts_to_overturn_the_2020_United_States_presidential_election
[election_worker_threats]: https://www.reuters.com/investigates/section/campaign-of-fear/
[jan_6_convictions]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criminal_proceedings_in_the_January_6_United_States_Capitol_attack
[ga_sos_call]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgia_election_racketeering_prosecution
[jan_6]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/January_6_United_States_Capitol_attack
[trump_fake_electors]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump_fake_electors_plot
[electoral_count_reform]: https://ballotpedia.org/Electoral_Count_Reform_and_Presidential_Transition_Improvement_Act_of_2022
[wall_funding_2018]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consolidated_Appropriations_Act,_2018
[wall_funding_2019]: https://www.cnbc.com/2019/02/15/heres-where-the-money-for-trumps-border-wall-will-come-from.html
[trump_bank_deregulation]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_Growth,_Regulatory_Relief,_and_Consumer_Protection_Act
[ira_cbo]: https://www.crfb.org/blogs/cbo-scores-ira-238-billion-deficit-reduction
[ira]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inflation_Reduction_Act
[biden_infrastructure_bill]: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_Investment_and_Jobs_Act
[biden_stimulus_bill]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Rescue_Plan_Act_of_2021
[trump_stimulus]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CARES_Act
[biden_gun_control]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bipartisan_Safer_Communities_Act
[trump_tax_cuts]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tax_Cuts_and_Jobs_Act
[biden_chips]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CHIPS_and_Science_Act
[usmca]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States%E2%80%93Mexico%E2%80%93Canada_Agreement
[trump_tax_cuts_analysis]: https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/publications/distributional-analysis-conference-agreement-tax-cuts-and-jobs-act/full
[biden_electoral_reform]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electoral_Count_Reform_and_Presidential_Transition_Improvement_Act_of_2022
[biden_marriage_bill]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Respect_for_Marriage_Act
[obergefell]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Obergefell_v._Hodges
[thomas_overturn_marriage]: https://www.politico.com/news/2022/06/24/thomas-constitutional-rights-00042256
[trump_aca_mandate_repeal]: https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2019/10/14/768731628/trump-is-trying-hard-to-thwart-obamacare-hows-that-going
[post_covid_gdp]: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-68203820
[wage_growth]: https://www.peoplespolicyproject.org/2023/12/20/what-about-wages/
[low_income_wages]: https://www.politico.com/news/2023/05/29/low-income-wages-employment-00097135
[income_inequality_falling]: https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w31010/w31010.pdf
[potus_economy]: https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/a-presidents-economic-decisions-matter-eventually/
[g20_stimulus_comparison]: https://www.statista.com/statistics/1107572/covid-19-value-g20-stimulus-packages-share-gdp/
[biden_houthi_airstrikes]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_missile_strikes_in_Yemen
[usa_refugees_by_year]: https://www.statista.com/statistics/200061/number-of-refugees-arriving-in-the-us/
