---
layout: post
title: "Computer Science Education in the Era of AI"
image: "/files/cs-swe-ai/motherboard-alexandre-debieve-thumb.png"
description: "'Computer' used to be a job title. Now it's the name of a machine."
tags: stem
---

Computers are impossibly good at math. They crunch numbers a million times faster, cheaper, and more accurately than any human. This creates a sizable incentive to turn all sorts of problems into math problems. As soon as you've turned something into a math problem, you can outsource it to a computer, which will solve it quickly and reliably.

That's what software engineers do. They take a problem, break it into computer-friendly pieces, and plug it into a computer using programming code. Software engineering is a well-paid profession that has seen consistent growth over the past few decades. Many college students study computer science with the intention of becoming software engineers. 

Recent advances in AI tooling have thrown the software engineering industry for a loop. Coding via AI agent has gone from novelty to industry-standard within less than a year. Experienced engineers can use AI tools to [work faster][ai_faster_work]. Non-engineers can use these tools to "[vibecode][vibecode]" software with minimal knowledge of the underlying machine. CEOs are eager to save money by [cutting engineers][block_layoffs] and using AI to fill the gaps. Computer science students and educators are scrambling to figure out what the future looks like. 

[vibecode]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vibe_coding
[block_layoffs]: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/26/business/block-layoffs-ai-jack-dorsey

I don't know the future, of course, but I've got a pretty good view of the present. I've been a software engineer for ten years; I currently work at Meta, which is [all-in on AI][zuck_ai]. I also moonlight as a computer science professor. I have grudgingly become a regular AI user for both coding and curriculum development. Here's how things look from where I'm standing. 

[zuck_ai]: https://www.reuters.com/business/meta-plans-600-billion-us-spend-ai-data-centers-expand-2025-11-07/

<!--
To be clear: I'm describing, not prescribing. 
To be clear: this is not an endorsemenent of AI as a technology. 
If you want my feelings on AI ethics, see the footnotes[^ai_water][^data_centers][^ai_slop][^ai_ip]

[^ai_water]: narp

[^data_centers]: factories where the internet is built

[^ai_slop]: yuck

[^ai_ip]: this is the big one
-->

<!--
## We're Describing, Not Prescribing

laying out what I have seen, and some next steps that feel overwhelmingly likely at this point

I am not rooting for AI. I am not telling you that you need to use it

As long as we're here, sure, let's call out the ethical stuff: 

- water use
- data centers
- deepfakes, political misinformation, non-consentual explicit content, spam
- finding vulnerabilities and exploits 
-->


## Demand for Coding Skills Was Dropping Before AI

Over the course of the 2010s, [software ate the world][software_ate_the_world]. Tech companies hired aggressively as they expanded into brick-and-mortar markets. For example:

- Netflix [bankrupted Blockbuster][netflix_blockbuster] in 2010
- By 2014, more people [got their news][fb_overtakes_newspapers] from Facebook than from newspapers
- Rideshare apps [surpassed traditional taxis][uber_taxis] around 2015
- Music streaming apps [overtook music purchases][spotify_cds] around 2016

Then came the COVID pandemic. People were home all day glued to their smartphones. This was more money in tech company pockets, which further fueled the demand for software engineers:

- [Ad spending on social media][covid_online_ads] saw double-digit growth at the expense of print media
- App-based food delivery [tripled][covid_food_delivery]
- Video call apps saw usage increase [*thirty*-fold][covid_video_calls]. 

There were only so many software engineers to go around. Companies competed for them. Salaries and [perks][perks] skyrocketed. Hiring standards dropped. I was lucky enough to experience this firsthand. A recruiter from Meta called me in late 2020. My resume was decent. My interview went badly. They ghosted me. But then, a few weeks later, their hiring quota went up. They called me back with an offer that doubled my previous salary.

College students took notice. They learned to code. From 2010 to 2024, the number of students graduating with a computer science major [increased five-fold][fivefold_increase]. The total number of software engineers in the USA, in turn, went from [one million in 2010][2010_swe_count] to [nearly two million in 2024][2024_swe_count]. 

But as the pandemic wound down, so did the hiring frenzy. Software was already integrated into every part of daily life, so there was less room left to expand. Job postings have been [trending down][swe_jobs_dropping_post_covid] for the past few years, with entry-level positions [hit hardest][swe_drop_by_seniority]. Layoffs are [rising][2026_tech_layoffs]. Salaries for new computer science grads are [dropping][swe_salary_dropping] closer to the other sciences. The pendulum was swinging away from computer science majors even before AI got good. 

[swe_drop_by_seniority]: https://www.finalroundai.com/blog/entry-level-jobs-disappearing-fast-because-of-ai
[covid_video_calls]: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8165498/
[covid_food_delivery]: https://www.ers.usda.gov/publications/106521
[covid_online_ads]: https://www.weforum.org/stories/2020/06/coronavirus-advertising-marketing-covid19-pandemic-business/
[perks]: https://www.businessinsider.com/tech-workers-office-perks-ski-trips-massages-meals-list-2023-2
[netflix_blockbuster]: https://variety.com/2013/biz/news/epic-fail-how-blockbuster-could-have-owned-netflix-1200823443/
[fb_overtakes_newspapers]: https://harvardpolitics.com/breaking-news/
[uber_taxis]: https://www.businessinsider.com/bofa-chart-uber-lyft-killing-traditional-taxis-2016-10
[spotify_cds]: https://www.theguardian.com/music/2016/apr/12/streaming-revenues-bring-big-boost-to-global-music-industry

## AI Has Already Redefined Software Engineering

Senior software engineers don't actually write that much code. We spend a lot of time on product roadmaps, system design, cross-team bookkeeping, etc. Once in a while we get tagged in to prototype a new feature or debug a tricky issue. But once the path forward is clear, the bulk of the implementation is passed over to junior engineers. 

That's how things used to be at least. These days, we delegate the mechanical work to AI agents instead. AI is good at learning a new codebase. It's good at breaking up medium-sized goals into actionable steps. It's good at turning those steps into code. It's even good at writing up a summary of what it's done. And it can do all of those things much *much* faster than a human. 

> TODO: bespoke hobby projects can still be done by hand. anything at corporate scale uses AI

It's not just coding either. AI is increasingly good at the fiddly manual tasks that pop up during the day. For example:

- Turning some bullet points into a presentable document
- Parsing project timelines from half a dozen different docs into a flowchart
- Finding a "good enough" answer to a vague question
- Cleaning up an outdated wiki page
- Taking a bunch of old data and converting it to a more convenient format

<!--
- this project is really important right now. please ping me as soon as an update comes in
- find me a doctor who takes my insurance and has openings next week
- flag accounts that demonstrate suspicious payment patterns
- can you summarize what happened on this project when I was out last week?

These tasks do not require any particular creativity, taste, or other human touch. We did them manually simply because we didn't have software to do them automatically, and they were too specific to justify writing new code. 
-->

Sometimes AI can shoehorn these tasks into an existing piece of software. Sometimes it writes new code on the fly. Either way, AI has significantly decreased the cost of outsourcing work to the machine. 

[Nobody is hiring][entry_level_collapse] junior software engineers because, frankly, they're not very useful right now. AI tools have taken their niche, and we haven't figured out a new niche for them yet. Fresh computer science grads are in a rough spot. I wish I could offer answers here. Instead I just have a big question: when today's senior engineers want to retire, who will replace them?

> TODO: maybe this is a short-term adjustment? maybe the market will adjust?

[fire]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIRE_movement

<!--
Those that do get hired are expected to [perform at a senior level][senior_skills]. That's probably not sustainable! Experience matters, and kids fresh out of school don't have it. 
-->

[system_design]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Systems_design
[iac]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_code
[entry_level_collapse]: https://hakia.com/news/junior-developer-crisis-2026/

## AI is Bigger Than Software Engineering

AI has taken on much of the mechanical work from software engineering. It can convert a flowchart to a design document, break a design document into tickets, implement a ticket as code, then schedule a meeting to keep stakeholders in the loop. The work won't be beautiful, and I often have to step in with corrections, but it's conspicuously faster than doing it myself or delegating it to another person. 

Fiddly computer tasks exist in other industries too. Teachers and bankers and salespeople spend plenty of time reading emails and writing spreadsheets. In time it will become clear that AI is undeniably better than humans at all sorts of white-collar bookkeeping. The forward march of AI isn't unique to software engineering; it just hit us first. This makes sense for a few reasons:

- Big tech is investing a lot of money into AI. We have whole teams of engineers figuring out how to spoon-feed the relevant context into an AI chatbot. This means our in-house tooling is a step or two ahead of what you'd see from that same model fresh out of the box. 
- Pretty much ever tool used by software engineers has a text interface via the Linux terminal. We use this interface to write little programs to automate tedious parts of our jobs. This same interface is very convenient for AI integrations. Buttons and dropdowns and other "pretty" interfaces are trickier to use programmatically.
- AI can respond very differently depending on how a prompt is phrased. We've had a lot of practice at it because our bosses [pushed us to adopt AI tooling][big_tech_early_ai] early. 
- Software engineers are expensive! Six-figure salaries are the norm. For that price, companies do not want us spending our time copy-pasting data from Excel into PowerPoint.

<!--
- transferrable skills? problem decomposition? understanding generally what the solution looks like? problem decomposition?
- ML and NLP
- Software engineering has tools to mitigate non-deterministic behavior. An AI agent can run static code analysis on its own output, see the mistakes, and iterate on them independently
- Programming code is consumed by machines, not humans. As much as it pains me to say so, there is generally no punishment for ugly code, and generally no reward for beautiful code
-->

Other industries will catch up. AI-friendly integration points will be added to proprietary software. AI tooling will be tweaked to abide by industry-specific [regulations][healthcare_regulations]. Computers are getting [cheaper and faster all the time][moores_law] (though AI costs specifically may [go up in the near term][reduced_subsidies]). AI models today are fundamentally "smart" enough to absorb the mechanical work from all sorts of different white-collar professions. For better or for worse, it's just a matter of time before they get plugged in. 

[healthcare_regulations]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S3050708126000273

<!--
Outsourcing some work to AI will allow people to focus more on what they want to *do* and less on the tooling necessary to do it. The transition will also be a huge pain in the ass that leaves some folks behind. 
-->

## Fewer Jobs Need Computer Science Expertise

In the early days of computing, people wrote programs in Assembly. The language is tedious, error-prone, and requires intimate knowledge of the hardware you're using. Then came C, which adds a layer of abstraction on top of the machine details, making it easier to focus on the logic of the program. The compiler turns C code into Assembly under the hood. Later, Python was built on top of C. Python syntax is much easier to read, and the language has built-in libraries for everything from [retro games][python_retro_games] to [robotics][circuitpython]. 

[python_retro_games]: https://github.com/kitao/pyxel
[circuitpython]: https://circuitpython.org/

Every step along the way, it has become cheaper and easier to outsource work to the machine. As a result we've seen ever-more-abundant software, created by people with ever-more-diverse backgrounds, addressing ever-more-specific problems. Fifty years ago, [Shazam][shazam] would have been unfathomable to [Grace Hopper][grace_hopper]. These days, a hobbyist could write it in an afternoon. 

<!-- Tetris, Shazam, Furby, Napster, Facebook -->

I think AI will continue to broaden software engineering. I also think we'll see some turbulence along the way. Most software engineering roles today are held by people with a background in computer science. This won't necessarily be the case going forward. 

Roles focused on low-level systems will be less affected. This includes anyone working on compilers, operating systems, devices, databases, site reliability, machine learning, and so on. A lot of [middleware][middleware] probably falls into this category too. Computer science fundamendals are deeply relevant to this part of the industry. They need to understand the ugly, tedious, and confusing parts of the machine -- their whole job is to engage with those parts and hide them from everyone else. Based on a [recent industry survey][swe_breakdown], this accounts for about a third of software engineers. 

<!-- These are typically low-turnover roles concentrated at big companies and in specialized industries. -->

The other two-thirds of the industry is focused more on product behavior. This is pretty much anyone working on anything that's visible to the user. I think these roles are at risk of being shaken up. Product engineers, by design, are insulated from the nitty-gritty details of the machine. As AI gets better and better at producing code, it becomes less and less important for product engineers to have a computer science degree at all. Instead of software engineers writing code for nurses and lawyers and architects, we may soon see those professions leveraging their own expertise to write it for themselves using AI as a software *engine*. 

This puts computer science educators in a tricky position. On one hand, we can stick to the fundamentals and accept the likely enrollment drop. Computers are fundamental to modern society. Someone should probably know how they work! On the other hand, we can try to make the major more relevant by focusing on using AI to build things. Less emphasis on the machine itself. More emphasis on project management, responsible data handling, and agent orchestration. Time will tell which approach works out better. 

<!--
People often study computer science to get hired as software engineers, but computer science and software engineering aren't quite the same thing. Computer science covers the fundamental logic, math, and physics of computing. Software engineers use the computer as a tool to deliver a product. Within that goal, there are a few different roles. 
-->

[problem_decomposition]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decomposition_(computer_science)
[shazam]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shazam_(music_app)
[furlexa]: https://www.raspberrypi.com/news/raspberry-pi-furby-furlexa-voice-assistant/
[craigslist]: https://www.craigslist.org/area/minneapolis
[grace_hopper]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grace_Hopper

<!--
## Education Follows the Job Market

[Fewer than 10%][1960_college] of Americans had a college degree in 1960. College was a place for wealthy men to network, party, and [launder priviledge into credentials][launder_priviledge]. [Grades][grades_didnt_matter] didn't particularly matter. There was little emphasis on [specific majors][no_pipelines] leading to specific careers. 

These days, [almost half of Americans][college_stats] go to college. It's career prep. Colleges brag about their job placement rates to attract students. Software engineering job postings require applicants to have specific majors. 

If AI becomes a major part of the economy, there will be immense pressure for colleges to fall in line. 

[college_stats]: https://www.bestcolleges.com/research/college-enrollment-statistics/

[no_pipelines]: https://www.norc.org/content/dam/norc-org/pdfs/NORCRpt_82.pdf

[grades_didnt_matter]: https://www.academia.edu/17179255/_The_1960s_and_the_Transformation_of_Campus_Cultures_History_of_Education_Quarterly_Spring_1986

[1960_college]: https://www.statista.com/statistics/184260/educational-attainment-in-the-us/?srsltid=AfmBOoqWN1ZxoKOL3XMbXlT8FyTx5J6LhpmQyK9WxoJ6iYzfB6YXiJ9j

-->

## Abstinence-Only Education Doesn't Work

I do not care about the essays my students write or the diagrams they draw. What I care about is that they sit down and engage with the material. In the past, mechanical homework assignments were a way to force them to do so. It doesn't really work that way anymore. AI allows students to turn in flawless homework regardless of whether or not they have absorbed the material. 

A [big study about this][china_ai_study] came out recently. The authors show that the average student is completing homework faster and better, but their test scores are dropping. In other words, they're outsourcing the homework to AI and learning less themselves. The authors also note that some students defied the average. About 20% of AI-using students spent just as much time on the material as their non-AI-using peers. Those students saw their test scores *increase*. The idea is that they are using AI as a tutor, rather than as a machine that spits out the answers.

<!--
If I show up to class with AI-written slides I'm going to have a bad time. The voice is bad, the pacing is bad, and it might even bring up a topic I'm not prepared to talk about. 
-->

This aligns closely with my experience using AI for curriculum development. It's an incredible resource for exploring new material. It can find answers even when I'm not sure exactly what I'm looking for. Chatting with an agent is both faster and more engaging than reading Wikipedia pages from top to bottom. For example:

- "I'm developing a lecture about the TCP/IP model of networking for an undergraduate computer science course. I'd like to talk about security. Can you list some important network vulnerabilities for each layer?"
- "My chapter on CPU architecture is feeling a bit light. We already cover the ALU, instruction pipelining, and hazards. Could you suggest some other topics I could add to flesh it out?"
- "We're covering stack frames in Aarch64. I'm worried that pre-indexing syntax will unnecessarily confuse my students. Can you mock up an example where we stick to basic commands and update the stack pointer manually?"

Some students intuitively know how to use AI in a positive way. Maybe more will figure it out naturally as they gain experience. I think it also makes sense for us, as educators, to confront the issue head-on. We can use both carrots and sticks to nudge our students away from self-destructive AI use. Here's what I've got so far: 

- Honesty. AI is excellent at correctly answering questions about computer science. I'm not going to exaggerate the risk of hallucination to scare them away. I *am* going to explicitly call out the risk of short-circuiting their own learning. 
- Modeling. I demonstrate "good" AI use to my students by using it interactively to dig into points of confusion. I also give them time to do the same during lab exercises (while I am present to answer questions). 
- In-person assessment[^remote]. My grading leans heavily on closed-book exams and live presentations. The first assessment is just a few weeks into the term. Students may not realize how much they've glossed over until they sit down to take an exam without AI. I want to maximize their chance to course-correct. 
- Temptation mitigation. If homework is worth half your grade, there's a big incentive to use AI to ensure you get it "right". If it's just practice for what you might see on the test, the only incentive is to learn it.
- Freedom to flex. I'm adding an open-ended final project to my course. I ask students to engage creatively with the material beyond what we cover in class. AI use is explicitly allowed, along with a challenge to build something appropriately ambitious. 
- Curriculum updates. Mechanical skills are probably still valuable as scaffolding, but it seems hard to justify a course that's entirely focused on them. It probably makes sense to move curriculum around to ensure that the mechanical work in every course always feeds into a human skill like curiosity, communication, judgment, or system thinking. I'm specifically planning to spend much less time on programming syntax. I'll be using that time to instead focus on privacy/security and the open-ended final project. 

[^remote]: Remote learning seems extremely fucked

> TODO: wrap this up

<!--

Our students have access to AI whether we want them to or not. 

Left to their own devices, many of them will use it to sabotage their own learning. 

To paraphrase [Titus Winters][tw]: we assign homework in the hope that it will lead to learning. We do not care about the essays and problem sets. We just want students to sit down and engage with the material and use their brains. 

remote learning... yikes. have students do video recordings of themselves instead of written stuff? yikes yikes

We lose the excitement of writing code with our own hands. But we gain the excitement of writing code that is more exciting than `print("Hello World!")`

Students have easy access to AI. 
do our best to deter them from self-destructive use
do our best to test learning in a way that sidesteps AI
what a pain in the ass
-->


## Open Questions in AI Ethics

Once the knowledge is out there, it can't really be unmade


<!--

- AI use is currently subsidized both by tech platforms and by the government. These subsidies may go away. We might even see taxes on AI use. This would presumably drive the price up, and cause markets to pull back. But fundamentally, AI is just another math problem on a computer. And computers can solve math problems cheaper and cheaper every year.

- water concerns are overblown. way way *way* smaller than beef
- data centers are not just about ai. factories where the internet is built. living next to a factory is not particularly desirable, but you've gotta put them somewhere
- ai is built on intellectual property that was taken without compensation, and sometimes without permission

you could probably build an LLM now without any stolen material, but that doesn't really solve the problem. the cat is out of the bag. 
compensation would be appropriate for the people who were stolen from. but from a practical standpoint, I don't know how you do it

nazis did horrifying science. we lock it up to avoid validating it. circumventing paywalls to steal essays is clearly not on that level. it's not a human rights abuse. it's intellectual property theft

scraped tons of data from the internet for training. no attribution, no compensation. not good! policymakers should get on that. there should be lawsuits. I'll bet people with appropriate expertise are on it

taxing, regulating AI may affect prices, but it won't kill AI. AI isn't a game changer because of the price point. it's a game changer because it fundamentally changes the way humans interact with machines

AI killing artist jobs?
plenty of artists use photoshop. does that make them not an artist? 


-->

## Wrapup

Generative AI has significantly decreased the cost of outsourcing work to the computer. It can write programming code better, faster, and cheaper than a college graduate. It's also good with spreadsheets, flowcharts, calendars, and emails. 

Junior software engineers can't find jobs because AI took their niche. 
Senior software engineers now spend more time talking to AI than they do to other people. 
Years of computer science curriculum and teaching strategies are suddenly moot. 
And that's just one industry. 
As tools become more mature, we'll find that AI is cost-effective in other white-collar professions as well. 

Amid the upheaval, I think there's room for optimism. 

Humans are the source of creativity, curiosity, and judgment. 
That's ultimately the important thing.

AI is a tool of mechanical follow-through. 
It increases the impact of people. 
Allows people to focus more on human things. 

erect guardrails around the ethical issues
a hammer, a chainsaw, a rifle, a boat, a printing press, an encryption algorithm





AI makes it so easy for students to cheat, and, perhaps more importantly, to chort-circuit their own learning. 



Generative AI these days writes code better, faster, and cheaper than an entry-level software engineer. This has thrown the industry for a loop. Junior engineers can't find jobs because AI took their niche. Senior engineers spend more time talking to AI than we do to other people. A decent chunk of computer science curriculum is suddenly moot. 


Generative AI has recently become "smart" enough to take on all sorts of white-collar tasks. It can write programming code, schedule meetings, compose emails, draw flowcharts, and more. 


the software engineering industry is coming off a decade of fast growth
this is some pretty serious whiplash





[project_based_learning]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project-based_learning
[china_ai_study]: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=6868618
[alex]: https://alexgude.com
[bootcamp]: https://careerkarma.com/blog/bootcamp-market-report-2020/
[history_of_devops]: https://www.bunnyshell.com/blog/history-of-devops/
[2010_swe_count]: https://www.bls.gov/opub/btn/volume-2/careers-in-growing-field-of-information-technology-services.htm
[2020_swe_count]: https://www.bls.gov/oes/2020/may/oes151256.htm
[2024_swe_count]: https://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm
[big_tech_early_ai]: https://www.economist.com/business/2023/03/26/big-tech-and-the-pursuit-of-ai-dominance
[fivefold_increase]: https://www.yahoo.com/news/articles/hottest-college-major-hit-wall-140231155.html
[swe_jobs_dropping_post_covid]: https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/IHLIDXUSTPSOFTDEVE
[2026_tech_layoffs]: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2026-06-04/us-tech-sector-announces-most-job-cuts-in-nearly-two-years
[swe_salary_dropping]: https://www.reveliolabs.com/news/social/computer-science-has-hit-its-high-water-mark/
[software_ate_the_world]: https://a16z.com/why-software-is-eating-the-world/
[swe_breakdown]: https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2025
[another_swe_breakdown]: http://evansdata.com/reports/viewRelease.php?reportID=9
[meta_big_ai_investment]: https://www.reuters.com/business/meta-sell-excess-ai-computing-capacity-via-cloud-business-bloomberg-news-reports-2026-07-01/
[devops]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DevOps
[sre]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Site_reliability_engineering
[cs_majors_increasing]: https://www.studentclearinghouse.org/nscblog/computer-science-has-highest-increase-in-bachelors-earners/
[tw]: https://speakers.acm.org/speakers/winters_20748
[launder_priviledge]: https://www.insidehighered.com/opinion/views/2023/07/10/education-privilege-laundering-opinion
[senior_skills]: https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/news-room/press-releases/2026/pwc-2026-ai-jobs-barometer.html
[telemetry]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Website_monitoring
[tech_debt]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_debt
[bls_2024]: https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/college-labor-market#--:explore:outcomes-by-major
[middleware]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middleware
[xkcd_manual_steps]: https://xkcd.com/2565/
[s_type_e_type]: https://microservices.io/post/architecture/2023/08/06/lehmans-laws-of-software-evolution.html
[end_of_programming]: https://cacm.acm.org/opinion/the-end-of-programming/
[git_and_grep_survive]: https://steve-yegge.medium.com/software-survival-3-0-97a2a6255f7b
[meta_leaks]: https://newsletter.pragmaticengineer.com/p/why-is-meta-destroying-its-engineering
[reduced_subsidies]: https://dev.to/shrsv/the-subsidy-era-is-over-a-reality-check-on-ai-powered-dev-tool-pricing-51dn
[moores_law]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moore%27s_law
[ai_faster_work]: https://metr.org/blog/2026-02-24-uplift-update/#other-means-of-measuring-productivity




